federalist 29 concerning the militia
from the daily advertiser thursday
january 10th
1788 hamilton to the people of the state
of new york
the power of regulating the militia and
of commanding its services in times of
insurrection and
invasion are natural incidents to the
duties of superintending the common
defense
and of watching over the internal peace
of the confederacy
it requires no skill in the science of
war to discern that uniformity in the
organization and discipline of the
militia would be attended with the most
beneficial effects
whenever they were called into service
for the public defense
it would enable them to discharge the
duties of the camp and of the field with
mutual intelligence in concert
an advantage of peculiar moment in the
operations of an army and it would fit
them much sooner to acquire the degree
of proficiency and military functions
which would be essential to their
usefulness this desirable uniformity can
only be accomplished by confiding the
regulation
of the militia to the direction of the
national authority it is therefore with
the most evident propriety that the plan
of the convention proposes to empower
the union to provide for organizing
arming and disciplining the militia
and for governing such part of them as
may be employed in the service of the
united states
reserving to the states respectively the
appointment of the officers and the
authority of training the militia
according to the discipline prescribed
by congress
of the different grounds which have been
taken in opposition to the plan of the
convention
there is none that was so little to have
been expected or is so untenable in
itself
as the one from which this particular
provision has been attacked
if a well-regulated militia be the most
natural defense of a free country it
ought certainly to be under the
regulation and at the disposal of that
body which is constituted the guardian
of the national security
if standing armies are dangerous to
liberty an efficacious power over the
militia
in the body to whose care the protection
of the state is committed
ought as far as possible to take away
the inducement and the pretext to such
unfriendly institutions if the federal
government can command the aid of the
militia in those emergencies which call
for the military arm in support of the
civil magistrate
it can the better dispense with the
employment of a different kind of force
if it cannot avail itself of the former
it will be obliged to recur to the
latter
to render an army unnecessary will be a
more certain method of preventing its
existence than a thousand prohibitions
upon paper in order to cast an odium
upon the power of calling forth a
militia to execute the laws of the union
it has been remarked that there is
nowhere any provision in the proposed
constitution for calling out the posse
comitatus to assist the magistrate in
the execution of his duty
whence it has been inferred that
military force was intended to be his
only auxiliary
there is a striking incoherence in the
objections which have appeared and
sometimes even from the same quarter
not much calculated to inspire a very
favorable opinion of the sincerity or
fair dealing of their authors
the same persons who tell us in one
breath that the powers of the federal
government will be despotic and
unlimited
inform us in the next that it has not
authority sufficient even to call out
the posse comitatus
the latter fortunately is as much short
of the truth as the former exceeds it
it would be as absurd to doubt that a
right to pass all laws necessary and
proper to execute its declared powers
would include that of requiring the
assistance of the citizens to the
officers who may be entrusted with the
execution of those laws as it would be
to believe that a right to enact laws
necessary and proper for the imposition
and collection of taxes would involve
that of varying the rules of descent and
of the alienation of landed property or
of abolishing the trial by jury in cases
relating to it
it being therefore evident that the
supposition of a want of power to
require the aid of the posse comitatus
is entirely destitute of color
it will follow that the conclusion which
has been drawn from it in its
application to the authority of the
federal government over the militia
is as uncandid as it is illogical what
reason could there be to infer that
force was intended to be the sole
instrument of authority
merely because there is a power to make
use of it when necessary
what shall we think of the motives which
could induce men of sense to reason in
this matter
how shall we prevent a conflict between
charity and judgment
by a curious refinement upon the spirit
of republican jealousy
we are even taught to apprehend danger
from the militia itself
in the hands of the federal government
it is observed that select core may be
formed
composed of the young and ardent who may
be rendered subservient to the views of
arbitrary power
what plan for the regulation of the
militia may be pursued by the national
government is impossible to be foreseen
but so far from viewing the matter in
the same light with those who object to
select core as dangerous were the
constitution ratified and were i to
deliver my sentiments to a member of the
federal legislature from this state on
the subject of a military establishment
i should hold to him in substance the
following discourse
the project of disciplining all the
militia of the united states is as
futile as it would be injurious if it
were capable of being carried into
execution
a tolerable expertness in military
movements is a business that requires
time in practice
it is not a day or even a week that will
suffice for the attainment of it
to oblige the great body of the yeomanry
and of the other classes of the citizens
to be under arms for the purpose of
going through military exercises and
evolutions as often as might be
necessary to acquire the degree of
perfection which would entitle them to
the character of a well-regulated
militia would be a real grievance to the
people
and a serious public inconvenience and
loss it would form an annual deduction
from the productive labor of the country
to an amount which calculating upon the
present numbers of the people
would not fall far short of the whole
expense of the civil establishments of
all the states
to attempt a thing which would abridge
the mass of labor and industry to so
considerable an extent would be unwise
and the experiment if made could not
succeed because it would not long be
endured
little more can reasonably be aimed at
with respect to the people at large than
to have them properly armed and equipped
and in order to see that this be not
neglected it will be necessary
to assemble them once or twice in the
course of a year
but though the scheme of disciplining
the whole nation must be abandoned as
mischievous or impracticable
yet it is a matter of the utmost
importance that a well-digested plan
should as soon as possible be adopted
for the proper establishment of the
militia
the attention of the government ought
particularly to be directed to the
formation of a select core of moderate
extent
upon such principles as will really fit
them for service in case of need
by thus circumscribing the plan it will
be possible to have an excellent body of
well-trained militia
ready to take the field whenever the
defense of the state shall require it
this will not only lessen the call for
military establishments but if
circumstances should at any time oblige
the government to form an army of any
magnitude that army can never be
formidable to the liberties of the
people while there is a large body of
citizens
little if at all inferior to them in
discipline and the use of arms who stand
ready to defend their own rights and
those of their fellow citizens
this appears to me the only substitute
that can be devised for a standing army
and the best possible security against
it if it should exist
thus differently from the adversaries of
the proposed constitution should i
reason on the same subject deducing
arguments of safety from the very
sources which they represent as fraught
with danger and prediction
but how the national legislature may
reason on the point is a thing which
neither they nor i
can foresee there is something so
far-fetched and so extravagant in the
idea
of danger to liberty from the militia
that one is at a loss whether to treat
it with gravity or with railary
whether to consider it as a mere trial
of skill like the paradoxes of
rhetoricians as a disingenuous artifice
to instill prejudices at any price or as
the serious offspring of political
fanaticism
where in the name of common sense are
our fears to end if we may not trust our
sons our brothers our neighbors our
fellow citizens
what shadow of danger can there be from
men who are daily mingling with the rest
of their countrymen and who participate
with them in the same feelings
sentiments habits and interests
what reasonable cause of apprehension
can be inferred from a power in the
union to prescribe regulations for the
militia and to command its services when
necessary while the particular states
are to have the sole and exclusive
appointment of the officers
if it were possible seriously to indulge
a jealousy of the militia upon any
conceivable establishment under the
federal government
the circumstance of the officers being
in the appointment of the states ought
at once to extinguish it
there can be no doubt that this
circumstance will always secure to them
a preponderating influence over the
militia
in reading many of the publications
against the constitution
a man is apt to imagine that he is
perusing some ill-written tale
or romance which instead of natural and
agreeable images
exhibits to the mind nothing but
frightful and distorted shapes
gorgons hydras and chimeras dire
discoloring and disfiguring whatever it
represents and transforming everything
it touches into a monster
a sample of this is to be observed in
the exaggerated and
improbable suggestions which have taken
place respecting the power of calling
for the services of the militia
that of new hampshire is to be marched
to georgia of georgia to new hampshire
of new york to kentucky and of kentucky
to lake champlain
nay the debts due to the french and
dutch are to be paid in militiamen
instead of louis doors and ducats
at one moment there is to be a large
army to lay prostrate the liberties of
the people
at another moment the militia of
virginia are to be dragged from their
homes five or six hundred miles to tame
the republican controversy of
massachusetts and that of massachusetts
is to be transported in equal distance
to subdue the refractory haughtiness of
the aristocratic virginians
do the persons who rave at this rate
imagine that their art or their
eloquence can impose any conceits or
absurdities upon the people of america
for infallible truths
if there should be an army to be made
use of as the engine of despotism
what need of the militia if there should
be no army wither with the militia
irritated by being called upon to
undertake a distant and hopeless
expedition for the purpose of riveting
the chains of slavery upon a part of
their countrymen direct their course but
to the seat of the tyrants who had
meditated so foolish as well as so
wicked
a project to crush them in their
imagined entrenchments of power
and to make them an example of the just
vengeance of an abused and incensed
people
is this the way in which usurper stride
to dominion over a numerous and
enlightened nation
do they begin by exciting the
detestation of the very instruments of
their intended user patients
do they usually commence their career by
wanton and disgustful acts of power
calculated to answer no end but to draw
upon themselves universal hatred and
execration
are suppositions of this sort the sober
admonitions of discerning patriots to a
discerning people
or are they the inflammatory ravings of
incendiaries or distempered enthusiasts
if we were even to suppose the national
rulers actuated by the most ungovernable
ambition
it is impossible to believe that they
would employ such preposterous means to
accomplish their designs
in times of insurrection or invasion it
would be natural and proper that the
military of a neighboring state should
be marched into another
to resist a common enemy or to guard the
republic against the violence of faction
nor sedition
this was frequently the case in respect
to the first object in the course of the
late war
and this mutual sucker is indeed a
principle end of our political
association
if the power of affording it be placed
under the direction of the union
there will be no danger of a supine and
listless inattention to the dangers of a
neighbor till its near approach had
super added the incitements of
self-preservation to the two feeble
impulses of duty and sympathy
publius